
=pod

=head2 System Data Miner (SDM)

System Data Miner (SDM) is software that represents TGI systems infrastructure.  This likely won't be useful to anybody outside The Genome Institute, but you never know.

The idea is to leverage UR's (http://www.urobject.org/) ability to perform cross datasource joins to build relationships between objects stored in different systems. We have classes that represent storage infrastructure, we hook into Zenoss, Platform RTM, Jira, and other data sources.

The goal is to be able to get useful information easily by leveraging these relationships. Instead of manually hunting around for this bit of info or that bit of info to answer your question, the hope is that you'll be able to query SDM in a clear way to get the info you need.

=head2 Use it

CLI users must be in the "systems" unix user group on a host with /usr/bin/sdm.  Use the --help option to explore possibilities.

 /usr/bin/sdm --help

The web interface runs on http://sysmgr/.

=head2 How is it useful?

We use the UR object-relation mapper (ORM) to build classes representing data stored in severeal disparate databases (eg. storage, jira, rt, zenoss, etc.)  Often, these data are related in ways that users know, but systems do not.  SDM attempts to provide a software interface for leveraging these relationships.  For example, we store information about storage infrastructure (disks, volumes arrays, etc.) in one database.  Outages and events related to this infrastructure is stored elsewhere, in Zenoss.  Tickets related to human efforts are stored in RT and Jira.  By performing cross data source joins, we can relate objects across these data sources and ask questions like, "Show me all storage arrays with Zenoss outages in the last week." or "Show me all Platform LSF jobs writing data to some disk volume."

One goal is to be able to answer questions from within one system, rather than having to shell into numerous systems and run numerous commands to gather the data required to answer such questions.

Also, the web interface provides a mechanism to build custom views of objects on the fly, via the REST interface.

=head2 Get the code

git clone git@github.com:kindjal/SDM.git

The code is separated into sub units that can each be built into .deb packages, eg. sdm-disk, sdm-jira, sdm-rtm, etc.  Each depends upon the toplevel ./sdm namespace definition area.  Code may be executed from the checkout and applied to SQLite databases.  Some of the units expect a separate instance of a running database, eg. Jira, RT, Zenoss.  But specifically the sdm-disk unit can be run entirely within SQLite local to the checkout.  I use a bash shell alias like this:

 SN=/home/archive/SDM
 alias sdm="/usr/bin/perl $( for DIR in $SN/sdm*/lib; do echo -n  "-I $DIR "; done ) $SN/sdm/bin/sdm"

Note that we hook into the Genome UR namespace in some places too, so I add this:

 alias sdm="/usr/bin/perl $( for DIR in $SN/sdm*/lib; do echo -n  "-I $DIR "; done ) -I $HOME/git/genome/lib/perl $SN/sdm/bin/sdm"

=head3 Running unit tests

Here's a slightly different alias "sd" that sets up @INC but doesn't call ./bin/sdm:

 alias sd="/usr/bin/perl $( for DIR in $SN/sdm*/lib; do echo -n  "-I $DIR "; done ) -I $HOME/git/genome/lib/perl"

With this you can run unit tests:

 sd sdm-disk/t/01-sdm-disk-command-line-interface.t 2>&1 | tee log

=head2 Author

Matt Callaway <mcallaway@genome.wustl.edu>



=cut
